Full-time center managers. And they had their
respective areas that they were out constantly
seeing what we could do. Need study. Learn need
study. And then the divisions, so we wouldn't have
any conflict with the divisions, they signed
their staff to that center. And those staff that
reported to their head of the division didn't
report to the city manager. The center manager had
no administrative control over any of the people.
All his was from facilities, providing need
studies, making sure the door was open when they
spoke to me and so forth and so on. And that was
probably the greatest thing we did during my
tenure. We created those centers. We were much
more cost-effective in delivering our services.
We had availability of lots of good professional
help. You know, you might just need a lawyer for a
two-hour presentation to take to an accident
investigation or whatever. And we had those
available, of course, in these centers because
it's all located in major areas. And that was
probably one of the the best decisions that I made
there at that time. Not only for the engineering
convention center, but for the entire university
system. Because we give them another
organization represented in this grand system.
And they were always first class operations.
There was no piggyback. They were always first
class. When we started to offer the rig training,
all-field rig training, and see the independent
drillers come to me and say, look, we've got, this
is about 12, 15 years ago, back in the early 80s, we
need some trained rig workers. So I said, well,
here's what we're going to take. And I said, we have
to have a rig. We have to have this. And the
independent drillers said they can give us the rig
to train on. They give us the, they underwrote the
program, which was rather expensive. Billy Mac's
kid went through it, his son went through it, and
said it's the greatest train he ever had in his
life. But we believed no hands on the train. We
believed in theory, but we believed no hands on the
train. And so that was a great success. It got us a
lot of publicity with the legislature. Bill
Clements came out. He was governor. Looking
back on those 19 years, Is there any area of
service, and I don't mean geographic area, but any
topic that you wish you all could have done more?
Were you frustrated that you couldn't have served
this or this or this industry? We couldn't serve
them. We had no boundaries. See, the Engineering
Extension Service is the only agency in the state
of Texas that has a statewide mandate to provide
probation and technical training on an extension
basis. We had no condominium. We saw something
like you mentioned. Yeah, we saw it, but we got on
it. We jumped on it right away. And normally, in all
those cases, there's some agency, some trade
association, some technically role in it as far as
the money raising is concerned. What were your
favorite groups to work with? There must have been
some that were more pleasant than others though.
Who
were the key state officials that you worked with?
Don't you name your favorites. The ones that you
would say thank you to I guess the one that
probably was my favorite and I don't know why I say I
don't know but anyway I like Mark White Mark White
and I and Joe Reynolds see Joe Reynolds Reynolds
and White was in the law practice together and
White was his junior member and then when he made
Secretary of State because I knew White when he was
on the with the as in his law firm. And Mark White,
the Secretary of State, come on up and run for
governor. I felt that he was the only governor I
really, really knew. You know, for any, I mean,
I've known all the governors, but I mean, to really
know them, so I guess that's one reason
I felt it was close to him.
Of course, Bill Preston helped me out an awful lot.
Any time I wanted an appointment with any senator
or representative, I could call Bill. He'd hand me
an appointment. This was while he was? State
chairman. Well, while he was a representative,
and as he served, you know, he served as chairman of
the House Appropriation Committee for about 10 or
12 years. Whenever I wanted an appointment with
any senator or house representative, I'd call
Bill. He'd hand me an appointment. Of course, Bill
Moore. when he was in the Senate. I had done a lot of
other work for Bill Moore. And on his outside, we
had that back of A&M. I wrote the chart for that back
of A&M with Bill and . Can you give me an example of
lobbying at work, where you called somebody and
they made the wheels turn? Describe. for a
specific project? If there was one, you can think
of? Yeah. I can think of one for fire. There was a big
push to create two or three more fire fields in the
state of Texas. And they didn't want to be a part of
A&M. They wanted to create their own, take a bunch
of volunteer fire departments. They thought they
should have their own fire field. There was no way
in the world it could ever support the town. But
still, the volunteer fire departments carry a lot
of rank in rural areas with their elected
representatives. And so they put on a push to
create a fire field somewhere out in Woodlands
area. This was long before the Woodlands was
built. And they bypassed us completely. And I got a
call one day from a member of the representative's
name down in that area. He said, what did I think
about you? It was Brazoria County that was pushing
it so hard. I think it was Brazoria County that was
pushing it so hard that it was going to tie in with
Harris County. I said, well, it's a very expensive
train program. I said, it's not cheap. I said,
you've got to have good training. You've got to be
damn careful. And I said, fuel's expensive, and
you've got to burn. You can't just light a match and
say, here, now we're going to go put it out. I said,
if you're going to have any fire training or those
types of training, you've got to have hands-on
training. They got to smell the heat and feel the
heat. But anyway, so he said, well, they're
putting this consortium together now. I know that
they're going to be coming to this for
appropriation.
So we got that started. Now, the way I stopped it, I
went down to the organizer. I said, tell me, what do
you guys want? What do you want? Tell me what you
want. Give me an opportunity to say no. So finally,
what their big gripe was, is volunteer fire
department, they didn't have anybody to place the
train on Saturday. They opened the damn parking on
Saturday morning. And that was their big gripe.
You know, they worked five days a week, and they
didn't have anybody to place the... I don't know,
it was too expensive to spend the night and so
forth. So I said, yeah, that's a problem. What time
do you want it? You want it to open at 10 on Saturday?
Burn it till 6. But we killed that one. But another,
at the same time, they were trying to get one out in
West Texas. And the word got to them then what we
did. But then they used the excuse that we live too
far away. We can't come that distance.
All right, can you give an example of where you
needed some help in the legislature? You needed to
get a bill passed or some funding and give an
example of where some people stepped up and helped
the extension service. No, I'll request one. The
only state appropriated money, the only state
appropriated money, the way I used my state
appropriated money was from the volunteer fire
departments in the rural water district. See, the
rest of this is $3 million. They didn't support our
programs like PILAR and the great television. No,
we never,
I don't ever, I didn't, I presented my, I worked
with LBP. I had the LVB over two months before
anybody else did, and I was taking them through
what my request was going to be. But I had programs
that the legislature couldn't fuss about.
Volunteer Fire Department, you know, rural water
districts. They couldn't fuss if there was a
problem. And it was, you know, even though we had a
$39 million budget, it was only costing the state
$3
million. And we didn't even have any in-house
fights with the board or other agencies. In fact, I
had on numerous occasions challenged that
detention service to get their money the way I got
mine. And John Dutch said one time that Bill Moore
and I don't know, four or five others, along with at
that time, I don't know who was the chancellor of
the system, I guess he was about to answer that. But
anyway, he had them all. And his main complaint was
that he couldn't compete with us. He had a
different clientele. All
right, now you reported to Benson and Calhoun
under Dr. Williams when you were first. All right.
Dr. Williams has the heart attack, and then the
system is recreated. The chancellor of the system
recreated in 76. And Jarvis Miller becomes
president. Ludeke went in and served for
Williams. Right. And tell them about working with
General Ludeke. No problem. He and I, he was a
general and I was a colonel, so I had to say yes, sir,
and I knew it. I didn't argue with him. How long did
it take him to make up his mind about something?
Well, when they told me I was going to move, that
they were going to move the headquarters over to
Henderson Hall, And at that time Fred told me, now
this is temporary. And Dr. Wheaton told me this is
temporary. But they've all agreed with me that we
had to get out of there. It was that. It was eyesore
for the university. And that's the approach I
took. It's not for me, it's, you know. Now this is
from that, down at the south. We missed this all,
yeah. So Ludeke was in command when they were going
to let the contract for Henderson Hall be fixed up.
When I went down there to see the plants, they had my
reproduction shop up on the third floor. And I
always had my own reproduction facility. You may
say that's your home. I admit it was probably your
home. But in industrial economics, I had my own
reproduction facility. So I could control the
time. I could move my projects around any way I
wanted to. So I had to deliver them. But I had a
reproduction shop from day one. And a lot of people
managed. Now, this was for printing materials?
Yes. All my artistic work. Because all mine was
sponsored research. And, you know, when I brought
down, and I had Exxon, I had contracts for Exxon for
seven or eight straight years. And you made it to
their board. Well, they expected a first class
presentation. They didn't want to see some carbon
paper stuck out of it. So I mean, I had, that was
quality. And that was built into the price to
operate that thing. That was built into the price.
But anyway, when I went down to see him, General
Luther was in charge at that time. I said, you know,
we can't have that facility up on the third floor. I
said, well, I've only got one little bitty
elevator. And I said, there'll be stuff coming up
and down. And of course, I'd gone into really
developing good lesson plans, good technical
manuals. And we had part of a reproduction shop
still do that. And they built that building out.
And by the way, we even paid for our building. We
built that $250,000 building out We built the
annex. We built that $500,000. Fred Benson put
$500,000. He put $500,000 out of the engine
extension. We built that bomb building. We built
that. It has its materials. I built that out of my
feed.
I ask them whether it's right or wrong. I operated
the engine extension services. I charged for
everything. There was no free things. I mean, it
was all built into the price. And so we were able to
do these kind of things. But anyway, we got that to
General Lukey's locale. I said, well, let's put it
down on the first floor so people can get in and get
out. And we moved that down. Well, I called, who had
that before? Whoever had that chopper, he wanted
to do it. And General Lukey, out on the phone, said,
right from his office. Who was that guy that had
that before? I don't remember. All right. Then
when
General Ludeke
steps aside, then Frank, let's see. No, that's
when Jarvis comes in. Jarvis is president, and Dr.
Williams is here for another couple of years. How
did your reporting process change then? To whom
did you report?
Well, they made Pinson vice president of
engineering, so I still reported up to him for
that. Okay. They didn't have, I guess I reported
directly to Jarvis for continuing education,
because I know I never did go up through Prescott.
Okay. To my knowledge, I didn't. But now you know
I'd give them a continuing education after five
years. You know, I only took that job for five
years. So after five years, I'll about continuing
education. And that fifth year came up just about
the time Jarvis took over. OK. All right. So you
then, by and large, reported to the system, not
through the president's office. Well, I can't say
that, because I had to make my budget presentation
one year to Jarvis. OK. All right. When he would
have a staff meeting of his key people, did you meet
with them? All right. No, the agency did. All
right, did Dr. Williams, did he, when he gathered
the agencies, you met with them when he was
chancellor?
Well, one or two meetings we had, yes. All right.
All right, then when he left, Frank Hubert became
the chancellor.
What, did the routine change at all? It never
changed. Okay. See, he was a Fred Benson man. You
knew that, Frank Hubert. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. The
first thing he told me, the first thing he did when
he became chancellor, was for his friend Vincent
Sellard to attend Pat's office. See, he liked
Fred. I mean, Fred and Dean. I think they were
family friends, too. All right, then take me on up
through the 80s. Were there any changes in the
routine with different presidents and different
chancellors? Well, of course, Richardson took
over
in 84. All right, no matter. Wait, we skipped the
man from Purdue. No, Hanson. Hanson. He was
chancellor. Well, it was about 84 when he did it.
Oh, and Richardson became dean of engineering.
Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah. He became dean of
engineering. All right. And he was also vice
chancellor. Describe his management style.
Was it, it was less direct than Benson and Calhoun
had been? Herb never, the whole time that he was
there, Herb never put a crossword. Herb and I got
along superbly.
I can't say enough good things about her, which is
where I come from. She never objected to a thing I
wanted to do. She proved everything I sent down to
her. I met with him once a month.
And it was no problem. Where her problems was
caused by his dad, Jack Flipsey, Kim, what was his
name? Kim Hall. And we only had one conflict. Now,
you've got to realize I'm a very organized person.
I believe in an organizational chart. I believe
it, and I follow it. But anyway, you want me to put
this on tape? Cut it off. Let me just talk to you.
As you look back,
you served 19 years. under a number of different
presidents and chancellors. I'm not going to ask
the negative, but in the positive, to which ones
would you give the highest?
As many as you want to. Which ones deserve the
highest credit? During that 19-year
period? Of course, I'd have to say Dr. Liggins in
place number one. Why? But I just think he is more
knowledgeable about the types of programs that
the Engineering Detention Services have. I think
that he accepted them on their merit, not as second
class. He never did give me the feeling that we were
second class to anybody, or to anybody else. He
always was fair. He was very easy to talk to.
Who else? Well, of course, Mr. Benson, I'm taking
him from the top down now. Mr. Benson and I had such a
long-term relationship with each other. We had it
from about 55 to 54, whenever he became, until he
got totally retired. We had a good relationship
after he retired. Fred was always to the point,
which I like. Fred had a lot of character, you know.
He always... I think Fred
was a very smart
individual.
He certainly commanded the the attention of a lot
of people. When he spoke, a lot of people listened.
And I admired that in him. So I'd have to put him on
the top, and then of course the next man was
Calhoun. So I went out and talked to Calhoun. We had
a lot of working relationships together. But in my
opinion, I'm not saying one was better than the
other, but in my opinion, we had completely
different types of leadership. After the middle
80s, it was completely different. Did it become
more bureaucratic? Yes, it was strictly
bureaucratic. You didn't feel at ease picking up
the phone and calling. I never did it in the first
place, but I always knew that I could if I wanted to
talk to Dr. Williams or Calhoun. I didn't have to
worry about Dr. Williams or Calhoun chewing me out
for calling Dr. Williams or vice versa. Mr.
Benson, I didn't ever do it. to my knowledge, but I
always felt comfortable in doing such a thing like
that. We were more, in my opinion, we were more
professional. We respected each other more. We
had a great deal of respect for each other. And I
think that was probably the one ingredient that
made those change. And I think before the time I
retired in 92,
We had a closeness. I felt to him as my friend, and
not only as my boss, but my friend. Other than your
senior partners, whom did you turn to for advice
and counsel and input most often? To my
committees. I had advisory committees in every
sector of my Engineering Detention Service
program, made up of the leaders in their field.
Like a telephone association, I'd have top
telephone members. Power company, I'd have
somebody from the power company. And we had
advisory committees. We had one whole law
advisory committee for the engineering
attention. It had one meeting a year. And I'd call
it in various parts of the state. Other committee
members would just pick up the phone and ask. And I
kept them informed. If it was on my telephone
committee, you got it. And I didn't delude them
with everything, but the things they ought to see,
I sent it to them. That's who I got help from, my
users. As you look back, can you think of any
decisions you wish that Texas A&M had made that it
didn't make?
Well, I think they should have gone forward and
carried the intent of 15 years before we did. I
can't say that because I don't have the
background. All right. Let's talk about that a
minute. Coeducation. higher admission
requirements, racial integration, broadening
the curriculum, non-compulsory core, all those
came in the 60s.
Did those affect your effort? No. No, they helped
my effort. You'd be surprised as to how many
people, you know, I always traveled with an
internship card. That was my Roman billboard. And
you'd be surprised at the number of people that
stopped me and asked me questions or to give them
information. I never took a trip that I didn't come
back to and I didn't have four or five requests for
information. And, uh, questions just like you
had, you know. This girl was effective, you know.
And I'm not the one that's been effective.
Everybody helps. The only one that's hurting it is
people who don't want to join the program. Now, you
rode to Austin for a number of years to reserve
meetings with Earl Rudder. With Earl, I only went
over there about six months with him because I'd
always assigned a driver out of my unit to drive for
him. And when I quit that, it's because the last
three that I assigned as a driver, they got them in
Westport. Oh, I see. I see. But I only filled in
there for a period of about six months, I guess. So,
all right, during those years that you and Mr.
Rudder were going to the same meeting then in
Austin,
describe your relationship with him. in reserve
well of course mr rudder was a major general and i
was a colonel and so rank-wise we was miles apart
and i respected that i always addressed john
rudder i never one time let myself down around
children i always was reasonably formal we never
did What he did was, he was going to his meeting on
Monday night, and you know, he'd have to be back.
He'd be back by 11.30, 12 o'clock. Mr. Rutter, Mr.
Rutter, nominally on the way back, slept. And he
had the ability to go to sleep.
He said, well, what did y'all discuss?
Well, we discussed the military quarter.
Discussed my unit. I had a battle group. We
discussed military personnel quite a bit.
The university, the only thing that would come up
about the university, you know, he'd ask you some
questions that you really had no answer, and you'd
say, well, let's just say I don't think he ever
asked this question. You're just thinking these
are the type of questions he'd ask. Well, has
making the Corps adoptive of the persons coming to
the university, that had any effect on you? You
know, I'd say, me, Perkins? He'd say, well,
Perkins and I do well. I'd say, no, we're living in a
different world.
And, you know, I said, I wouldn't take all the money
in the world for my years I spent in the Corps for
this. I said, but, I said, that was in 1940. And I
said, I've got two sons. And I said, they're both in
the Corps, but I guarantee you I didn't push them in
the Corps. They went there on their own. But we
never did get into personalities. We never did
with me because, as I say, I was two ranks below him.
I didn't have any relationship with him as him
being my boss other than in the military. Can you
share any anecdotes or amusing or interesting
things that happened going to or from that
involved Mr. Rutter? No, but did anything ever go
wrong? Did you all ever have a flat or get there late
or anything like that? Well, I got stopped several
times for speeding. Oh, really? Oh, yeah. And what
would the highway patrol say? Oh, he gave you, it
didn't matter whose car that was? We were driving a
military vehicle. Mr. Runner liked to get where he
was going fast. I don't know if anybody's ever told
you that before. No, I didn't know that. He wasn't
allergic to pushing the metal to the pedal. I don't
know how many tickets he got, but with me, I got one.
All right, who paid the tickets? I gave it to him.
Okay, so you don't know. You don't know, OK. I never
did ask him. He always would take the ticket from
me. He took the one ticket from me. All right, when
the highway patrol would stop, did it impress the
highway patrol that here was a major general?
Well, that only happened one time with me. And I
doubt if that highway patrol knew a major general.
All right, so he didn't even talk to the person in
the back seat. OK. No, I'm just talking about one
time. It was late at night. Mr. Rudder, have a sense
of humor? Very good sense of humor. uh give me any
can you give me an example of his i told you i had an
infantry battle group and we always had the army
commander come down when we go to camp so mr rudder
always used my battle group as one to demonstrate
him put on there today so one day we had this general
come down fourth army commander you know i said to
him i want to do this we'll be out of here training at
11 o'clock give me a map to tell me specifically
where you're going to be all of these So I said,
fine, I've done this a dozen times. So we decided to
have an interview in a tank. And I picked out a
beautiful valley, and I had a nice row of trees. And
we come right, so I said, OK, we're going to come
right down and do our tanks. And so Bowman, Mr.
Runner, and the other general go up. I went up and
reported to him. Oh, he said, oh. And I said to this
gentleman, I said, now there's a lot of wood
rattlers here up that wall. And I said, in fact, I
said, there's one right by your foot. Oh, he's a
little bit shorter than me. And I said, put your
boots on. They won't bother you. But anyway, we
went up to this thing. By that time, boy,
everything was going to be different. I mean, I had
the idea. I've always had the time right there.
They'd have a little awful time for attacking you.
So Mr. . But anyway, I told this gentleman, I said,
sir, I said, there's another rattlesnake that
crashed by your foot, and I just put my foot back out
and stopped it. He said, get it back. I said, no,
sir, get it back. So I got into his car. He said, now,
are you sure that rattlesnake didn't crash? I
said, I'll show you. He said, I'd like to see you at 1
o'clock today, Carl. And I thought he was going to
get me for telling him about the damn rattlesnake.
He said, goddammit, Carl. He said, when I said,
make it realistic, he said, I didn't want you to run
over
us. I said, well, I said, at that slope, I said, you
know, I said, to make it realistic, we had to come
take part in that slope. He said, I didn't want it
that damn close. As far as you know, when Earl
Rudder was president of A&M, to whom did he turn for
advice most often? Whose advice did he listen to
most carefully? Well, do you mean from in-house?
Mm-hmm.
I don't know. All right, then you. It might
surprise you, though, if you didn't know. There
might be some instructor down there or something.
You said in-house. All right, let's go out of the
house. Away from the campus, whose advice did he
hear? Well, he had here to the board's advice. He
had a lot of respect for the board. Which, who were
the key board members during his day? Well, let's
see. He got out, when did he die, in 59? Oh, in 70. In
69? Okay. He died in March of 77.
Sterling Evans, Zachary, Clyde Wells. Clyde
Wells was on it, and Mrs. Wilson from Lubbock was on
it. And I don't know whether Norman Mosier was on it
at that time. I don't either. And I don't know
whether Mr.